>> Kyle Simpson: There
are several different
ways that you could try to model what I
asked for from a stream's perspective,
and I have attempted several
different ways of modeling this.
And so, I'm gonna walk you through
one way of modeling it and
then show you why that's not a good idea
and then show you a second way, okay.
But that's not at all
the only ways to do it.
There are different ways of thinking about
it and one of the things about becoming
a good reactive programming
developer is understanding all
the tools that are available to you
in understanding how we can mix and
match these different higher level stream
operations to accomplish our goals.
That is still a path that I am actively
learning on, to be completely honest.
And I wouldn't in any way, shape or
form suggest that I'm a master of that.
I am still trying to learn better how to
model these sorts of things in streams.
So, one way of thinking about this is we
could think about the clicks as a single
stream of data and the timer that's
marching as a second stream.
And we could say what am I gonna do if
I compose those two streams together.
So, let's start that and
let's see how that works.
Let's call let's make one stream for
our clicks.
And I showed you in
the slides that the simplest,
easiest way to make an empty stream that
we can push data into is to say .of.
And let's make another one for
the timer is ASQ.react.of.
Let's just see how this works out for
us and see whether or not
This is gonna be the path
that we wanna go down.
So clicks, every time I get a click event,
I could say clicks.push and
push an event into the end of the pipe,
into the end of the stream.
And then, on the outside of it
I'm gonna receive that event,
of course, that's one way of doing that.
And I could set myself up an interval
to run every 1000 milliseconds.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
I could push a timer of that down.
In fact, you could say that's such a
common pattern I ought to have some little
adapter for
pushing timer events down, right?
So yeah, we might wanna create
ourselves a little utility for
making a timer stream to
push timer events down.
But maybe we're not going to push anything
that just the fact that there's an event
that there's no data to push along so in
that called dot push was no events here.
So now, I have two different streams and
I could think about
what are my possible ways of merging two
streams into a synthetic third stream.
Well, what I really want is
I want to send an event out
whenever both of those
things have happened once.
Or whenever there is an event ready
with both of those that's when I want
my synthetic event to fire which is
gonna be my messages that go out.
So, you could model this the same that
by the way it's called Zip in the reacts
the reactive extensions world.
You can used .zip if you like here or
I like to call it dot all because it
is waiting for all of them to show up.
So, we could model this is
saying ASQ.react.all And
give it both streams give it
the clicks and the timer stream.
And that's going to be
a NEWS STREAM that we call,
I don't know I'm not coming
up with a good name for it so
let's just call it ready I'm
ready to print out a message or
maybe I'll just call it
the messages stream, okay.
So that's my new messages stream, and
I could say the messages
stream is going to receive
an event every time there's something in
the queue from both of these two streams.
That's when it's going to move on.
But the thing that it's going to print out
or the thing that it's going to move on
is going to be a combination
of an event object and
an undefined value because I
don't push anything in here.
So, I could subscribe to that stream by
saying every time a new event comes in.
I know I'm gonna get some data in here but
I actually don't really
care about the data.
>> Kyle Simpson: So, I know that this val
function is gonna get called every time
the message's synthetic stream
has something to give me.
And I could take $.list and
I could append to that list a Div,
that says clicked for
example, okay?
Now, if you ran this code,
you're going to get something
approximating what you were hoping for.
But there's something deeper
here that I want us to
begin to develop some instinct about.
First of all,
did anybody try to go down this path?
Is this the path that
you went down anybody?
Okay, so you did.
What's gonna happen here
is that we're pumping in
the clicks into the end of this pipe and
there's nothing throwing away events.
This isn't really sampling in the sense
that the stuff that we're not waiting for
is getting thrown away.
So, there's gonna be a queue inside
of here that's gonna be stacking up
how many of those events are firing
is going to be stacking those up.
So ,what would happen if you tried
this is if you click the button
a whole bunch of times and
then stopped clicking.
You're gonna start just seeing
the click happen once a second
as it drains out that queue
of clicks that have piled up.
Which isn't really exactly what
we're wanting we're wanting sampling
which is dropping stuff isn't there.
We see the conceptual problem there with
that particular stream operation because
what we have available to us with the .zip
is it's not gonna drop stuff for us.
That's not the definition of that
particular stream operation.
>> Speaker 2: So,
this isn't like a hard observable and
hacks chair
>> Kyle Simpson: So,
RxJS does have a notion, I didn't wanna
get into all the complexities that.
They do have a notion of hot
versus cold observables, and
in RxJS terminology what that means is,
let me make sure I get this right.
If you have a cold observable.
Then, nothing goes into the stream unless
somebody is on the other end observing it
and if you have a hot observable.
I don't know I might be getting that
backwards but they do have this notion of
dealing with this piling up of
events of nobody's observing it.
But in our particular case,
it actually wouldn't matter because
whatever whether you had a hot or
a cold observable here.
You're still observing it on your .all.
Your .zip is observing your observables.
So, it wouldn't matter whether it was
cold or hot in this particular case.
So, there is that world in RxJS.
That's another one of those complexities
you have to learn when you learn RxJS is
the difference between hot and
cold observables.
Basically, I tried to remove as much of
that distinction from reactive sequences,
because I find that to be
more complex than beneficial.
But, okay, so this way of thinking about
things is not really accomplishing our
overall goal of sampling with
throwing things away from the stream.
Could we set ourselves up with another
thing that manually drains the stream?
Like whenever this timer
fires we could manually dream
drain the click stream until there
was one and push it back in.
Yeah, we could go that direction.
And I tried that one time I
actually did that I just would
approximate this I was like
I'll drain the stream and
then whatever that last one is I'll
push it right back again and then.
So that is one way of going about it but
that's not really embracing the idiom of
reactive programming the way
you probably want to, okay?
So, the point I'm trying to make
is there's a lot of different ways
to go out in this.
I'm going to suggest to you
another way of approaching this that
accomplishes our goal of sampling.
So, what I'm gonna do.
I'm still gonna have a clicks of it but
I'm not gonna do a timer stream.
I am gonna do a messages stream.
And I'm gonna keep track of the latest
event message to come
down the click stream.
I'm gonna keep track of
that in a free variable,
in a variable that's in my closure.
I'm just gonna call it latest.
I could wrap that up inside
of its own enclosure,
like we did in functional programming.
I could make a pure wrapper around it, but
I'm being lazy here, and I'm just trying
to illustrate a concept, that I could keep
track of the latest event that's happened.
So for example,
what I could say is every time that
this has happened,
I can say latest is equal to EVT.
And then, inside of my set interval,
not gonna be pushing on that anymore, but
inside of my set interval, what I'm going
to do is if whenever this fires, if latest
has been set, that is, I know that there's
a waiting click event in the queue.
Then, I'm going to go ahead and
push into the messages queue.
>> Kyle Simpson: And I'll just go
ahead and push the message clicked.
That way I actually can
push that message along.
>> Kyle Simpson: That part's not strictly
necessary, but it does illustrate the fact
that I can make a stream with
other pieces of data in it.
So, I'm gonna do that, and then I'm
going to reset latest back to null.
>> Kyle Simpson: Which means the next time
the timer fires if no click is happen I'm
just gonna go on past it.
But if there's any click that's been
waiting that I'm basically gonna tell it,
there is something waiting for
you go ahead and push out the message.
So, I'm basically making
a boolean variable ish Into
something I'm treating as a stream.
Because in this particular case it's
easier to do a boolean operation than it
is to do a boolean stream operation.
There are ways to model boolean stream
operations, but they're much more complex.
So, I don't think you should go down
that route when there's a simpler
option available.
This isn't maybe the most perfect and
pure reactive programming.
But under the covers, if you have
a reactive utility like RXGS and
I think they have
a sampled stream operation.
They have a way to sample
a stream operation.
Guess what they're doing?
They're saving it into a variable,
so we're just cutting out
the middleman and doing that ourself.
>> Speaker 2: You wouldn't eclipse then,
would you?
>> Speaker 3: Stream in, don't you?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Kyle Simpson: So I know, okay, yes.
So, my intended, I'm sorry I did get
a little slightly off track here.
My intended thing was to not, too had here
I was trying to separate concerns and
then I forgot to go back and do that.
My intended thing was to observe
the clicks thing and set latest.
So, I was going to observe
the clicks event and
I don't want to be mixing my dom event
handling with my stream event handling.
That's a mixture of concerns when
we want to keep things separate.
The whole purpose of setting
up these streams is so
that I can produce events in one stream
and observe them in a different place.
In this different place which is line 20
of my code I don't know anything at all
about where the clicks are coming from.
I don't know what DOM element is
handling those, so I want to be able to
observe that at a far, so that's where I'm
gonna observe the event happening here.
And say latest is equal to event.
>> Kyle Simpson: So basically,
think conceptually.
There is a dividing line here where
these are two entirely different
parts of our application.
The production of our streams and the
consumption of our streams and down here.
In these things we don't know anything
at all about the DOM elements
that are occurring.